this is a prototype of a game on
building all the tiles are designed by
cert over at open game art org the link
is in the description you can see this
game is a platformer there's a lot of
vertical places that you can jump to and
this entire level is built with tile
which is a level editor I'm building
this game super jump
see I've got a some sound effects when
the player is on a ladder or a rover -
different sound effects for that and
this game is very out for so the jumpy
needs a lot of work and the AI is kind
of basic
[Music]
and then here's a boss like a mini boss
that comes out and so scripted event she
resurrects all the skills and said I
killed she summons the creepy horror and
and this gives the player sense of
urgency jumping puzzles and this is all
built-in piled so I can focus on
designing the Goblin and not worry so
much about any integration with level
beta everything serialized and comes in
two days already
here's an example the super jump needs a
lot of work I can skip that whole area I
design and the game has some looting
mechanics when I'm filling this down
instead of dropping into some arrows at
heart there's a kind of air
oh well I died so I'll show you the game
of tile and here's all the tiles I work
in layers so I have my background ground
and objects so I'll go over the ground
first these are all the platforms the
player can collide with and in any place
where I don't want the player to go I
can block them off and there's where I
die so here you can see this is where I
work on the placement and here's the
background and you can see how I'm using
a black background in my game engine
instead of painting those tiles again
here's where I died and even the ladders
are background and I'll get into that
with objects so objects are markers that
I can put properties on and load them in
in the level data in the game engine so
here is an enemy spawn and it's a type
of skeleton so here's where that
skeleton spawns here's the player spawn
you can see the creeping Horak spawn
down at the bottom and then here's enemy
spawns here's the ladder spawn and this
is a type of rope and then this is a
type of vine so here is where I can use
the level data into the game engine to
play those sound effects so here's how I
I'm doing the sound effects I have an
object full of parameters that have an
array of sound effects so on ladder on
vine on rope
it picks one of those random sound
effects in there to play so when the
player is on either one of those I'm
just looking at the level data and
playing that sound effect
here's the where the boss spawns right
there and so objects can be used for
little markers
and they're pretty easy to get get it
into your game here's where I died and
again here's here's the tiles there's
not very many but you can build some
great levels just with limiting yourself
so here I'm gonna show you how easy it
is just just to just copy and paste a
bunch of objects and have a bunch of
skeletons spawn and so I would encourage
developers to find points in your game
where you can integrate a proven tool
that works like tiled and integrated
into your game and you can build levels
fairly fast and prototype quickly and
you can focus on a tool like tiled that
allows you to really think about how
you're designing your level and then you
can load it in and just like you saw
with the Medusa I can script in events
based on different objects that I place
in the level hope I don't die thanks for
watching